Welcome back it's a fact that we all make mistakes myself included if I made too many mistakes to count
my life as well as in my code.
For every mistake you actually see where I have a syntax error I sometimes leave them in.
But there's probably five or ten behind the scenes that I edit out.
It's can be hard you know when you're typing and talking at the same time but also just when I'm not
making classes I'm just writing code to make mistakes all the time whether it's human error or syntax
error like adding in a semi-colon when I don't need one because I'm confusing coming from javascript
to Python and switching back and forth a couple of times during one day.
Or maybe it's computer code to code error like if I have a database and it's supposed to be running
but the database for some reason crashed and my code is trying to connect to it.
That's not necessarily something that I did as a human.
I didn't type something wrong but things aren't acting how they're supposed to they're not behaving
the way they're intended to.
That's a problem.
So the point is.
Errors happen all the time whether it's from things we do wrong or from things failing when they're
not supposed to fail or from servers not being up.
Things just happen.
So how do we fix them is a really really important part of being a developer and the first step to preventing
them and then fixing them is just understanding them.
So we're going to start by just going over some of the common Python errors.
We're not going to go over every single one but just some of the common ones.
And reviewing a lot of the ones you've already seen and will go pretty quick.
And first up is our good old syntax error.
So we've seen this one a lot.
I have as I've been typing and recording into the microphone and it just occurs when Python encounters
some wrong syntax something that isn't valid Python that it can't parse.
Usually due to typos.
So here's an example of def first and no parentheses.
And then a colon that's going to confuse Python because as it parses it says all right this is a function.
So I should expect parentheses after the name.
There's no parens and so it gets confused.
Same thing here where we have none equals one that's invalid Python.
Or just returning something.
Or if we had a semi-colon just in the middle of our code or something like that that could cause problems.
So that would be a syntax error.
For example there we go.
Invalid syntax.
Or just to show you.
Def name.
And then let's do two parentheses.
Wrong Way.
Syntax error.
All right.
So you've seen plenty of this.
Next up is a name error.
So a name error occurs when a variable is not defined meaning it hasn't been assigned yet.
So here's an example.
This example assumes that test has not been defined and if I just refer to test we get a name error.
We've seen that before as well.
If I just type test right now we get a name or any other variable that is non nonexistent like R or
person.
None of these exist perso person.
Every time we get an error.
Python is just telling us.
I don't know what that thing is so that's different than a syntax error.
Obviously it conveys something different in the type of error.
Next up is type error.
So a type error occurs when basically you have a mismatch of data types.
So an operation or function is applied to the wrong type in Python just can't figure out what to do.
So for example we call Len on 5.
Well an integer itself doesn't have a length so it gives us a type error.
Same thing if we try and add a string to a list type error so we could do three plus S we get a type
error and it explains unsupported operand types for plus between an int and a string.
If I tried to do learn a float same thing type error object of type float has no length change it to
a string though.
You don't get a type error because strings are one of the types that has a length.
Next up index error.
So an index error happens when you try to access an element in a list using an invalid index.
We've seen this before.
I remember I deliberately showed what happened if you tried to access a list with an index that doesn't
exist and the same applies to a string.
So if we have this list it just has a single element.
So the highest index is zero.
If I try to access a list of two we're going to get an index error.
Same thing with strings.
So if I have a string called name equals Colts and then a train access name of zero that's fine but
name of 4 causes a problem.
Index error.
String index out of range.
Same thing 5 a tuple.
One two three four and then try to access names of six index or tuple of range and same with a list
Well next up is value error.
So this happens when a built in operation or function receives an argument that has the right type but
an inappropriate value.
For example when we've been calling in to convert a string most often to an end if we pass in the string
of five then that works and it gives us the into a 5.
But if we pass in string foo Well a string is OK that's not the problem.
It's not a type error.
The problem is that it contains the string foo instead of a number that can be converted.
OK so if I did it and I tried to pass in a list of I don't know containing the string F or even the
string 10 that doesn't work because that's a type error.
It's not expecting unless it's not set up to convert lists.
So we get a type error but if I do it and I pass in the string 10 that works fine.
It expects a string but if I do a string of F that's a problem.
Value error.
Invalid literal for ints with base 10.
It doesn't like the string F but it doesn't say to all strings.
So that's what a value error tells us.
Next up key error so key errors occur with dictionaries when you try to access or retrieve something
from a dictionary with a key and it does not have that specific key.
So for example we have an empty dictionary.
D.
And I try to access anything in there whatever the key is we get a key error.
So it's sort of like the index error for a for list but for a dictionary we get a key error and there's
just one more I'll show you.
I should be clear that there are more than what I'm displaying here.
I mean there's very specific errors like a divide by zero error.
I just decided not to go into detail about all of them because whenever you get an error it's pretty
self-explanatory to explains what it is and you could just look it up.
Google copy and paste and see what you get.
But I just want to highlight the common ones I should've started off by saying that anyway.
The last one attribute error.
So this occurs when a variable does not have an attribute.
So for example.
Awesome.
Foo awesome is a string.
And if I try an Access foo an awesome it just it's just not a thing.
So I get this attribute error.
Same thing.
If I had a list one two three and I try and call a method called I don't know.
Hello I get an attribute error.
It basically is python telling me OK I just can't find anything called Hello on this particular list
or string whatever we find working with.
So we've seen how to do you know string dot join.
And I think if I call it like this with an empty list Yeah it gives me a type error because I didn't
pass the arguments.
So let's just pass and I don't.
1 and 2 a and b and I get a B.
Right.
That's not the point.
But if I tried to call a joint now I would get an attribute error.
That tells me I don't know what you're talking about.
String object has no attribute.
OK so those are just a quick overview of some of the most common errors.
If you go in the docs we can see there's a ton of them you know import errors memory errors indentation
error.
I've definitely seen one before.
Tab error.
So that's when you're mixing up tabs and spaces.
What else.
0 division.
So when I was talking about deprecation warning import warning runtime there's just a ton of them.
So if you do want to take a look.
Feel free to study these.
But like I said most of the common ones he already talked about.
And when something pops up just copy and paste Google it and see what it actually means.
If you're confused.
OK.
Now that we've seen some of the common errors.
Next I'm actually going to show you how to make your own to raise an error whenever you want.